The Farewell Sermon of Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) is undoubtedly the first and ideal manifesto of human rights.

There are the following points of the Last Farewell sermon about the 'human rights & social values' below:

Keeping away from usury: 
                                                        Usury is a havoc thing for every country  & social life. So, Prophet Mohammadصلى الله عليه وسلم

                                                                    order to keeping away from it.

                                                                     

 Beware of Satan :
                                                      Satan is one of the biggest foe of every Muslim.It always attempts to take away Muslims from the worship of 

                                                        Allah.And he always becomes the cause of every sin of Muslim. 

Eliminating racism:
                                             Prophet Mohammadصلى الله عليه وسلم said that  All mankind is from Adam and Eve, an Arab has no       

                                 superiority over a non-Arab & nor a  non-Arab has any superiority over an Arab. So, Everybody has equal     

                                                  rights.

Treating women well:
                                                  Prophet Mohammadصلى الله عليه وسلم said that women's are the deposit of Allah to you. 

Become Fiducairy (depositary (Amanat Dar):  
                                                 Islam orders Muslims to become Fiducairy about the deposit of another person.

Heritage:
                                                According to the Last Sermon, Son & other heirs have a certain share in heritage.             

Debt (loan):
                                                  payment of debt is must & impose.

Brotherhood:
                                            Prophet Mohammadصلى الله عليه وسلم said that all Muslims are like a brother to each other.

don't cruel with slave:
                                                   In the last Sermon,  Prophet Mohammadصلى الله عليه وسلم said that don't cruel with slaves. Give them                                                  same things which you eat , drink & wear.

                                                     